README.md, before:

# Insta Calendar

Static website event calendar that mines from Instagram.

This is a personal project, but feel free to fork/use the code for whatever you like. I'm also happy to accept pull requests to improve parts of the project. However, the code is designed for my own specific use case, so generalization may be difficult.

## Local Installation

1. Install Python (3.12)
2. Install Ruby and Jekyll from the following [instructions](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)
3. Change directory to site `cd site` and run `bundle install`. The Jekyll version specificed in `_config.yml` will be installed.
4. Run `bundle exec jekyll serve` to start server.

## Usage

Place instagram usernames in the username.txt file, one per line. Run `main` to generate a dataset of posts in `posts.csv`. Run `post-maker` to format those posts into markdown. Post-maker can also extract tags.

### Tag extraction

The `post-maker.py` script does three things with tags:

1. Extracts tags using `#tag` format in the description, as expected.
2. Extracts keyword tags defined in `tags.txt` from the description text (case insenstitive, no punctuation)
3. Exact pattern match for substrings defined in `tags.txt` with `*YOUR_TAG`

You can also exlcude tags from step one using `-YOUR_TAG`.

## Configuration

```config.json``` contains options to control the start point of mining. If you delete the file it will autogenerate with defaults. On completion, it will automatically update with last run data.

|option|description|
|-|-|
|start_date| How far back to mine, if there exists no `last_run` data. Accepts an ISO format string, `null`, or `"default"`. If the value is null, it will mine until the beginning of an account. By default, the start point will be set to one month prior to the first run. |
| last_run | Stores the last run. You can overwrite this or set to null.

The API mines backwards from the most recent post, so setting an earlier start date while maintaining the last run does nothing.

## Website settings

### Language toggle
Some basic client side translation is available. Define strings in `assets/js/strings_<lang>.json`. You can also define patterns. The general idea is to provide localisation of UI elements (where bilingual content is not really feasible) without generating two versions of the website.

## GitHub Action Automation

Go to Settings > Actions > General, scroll to Workflow permissions and set to "Read and write permissions" and "Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests"

Go to Settings > Environments > "github-pages", then change the allowed branch.

Commit message:

refactor User, add author collection for places

README.md, after:

# Insta Calendar

Static website event calendar that mines from Instagram.

This is a personal project, but feel free to fork/use the code for whatever you like. I'm also happy to accept pull requests to improve parts of the project. However, the code is designed for my own specific use case, so generalization may be difficult.

## Local Installation

1. Install Python (3.12)
2. Install Ruby and Jekyll from the following [instructions](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/)
3. Change directory to site `cd site` and run `bundle install`. The Jekyll version specificed in `_config.yml` will be installed.
4. Run `bundle exec jekyll serve` to start server.

## Usage

Place instagram usernames in the username.txt file, one per line. Run `main` to generate a dataset of posts in `posts.csv`. Run `post-maker` to format those posts into markdown. Post-maker can also extract tags.

### Tag extraction

The `post-maker.py` script does three things with tags:

1. Extracts tags using `#tag` format in the description, as expected.
2. Extracts keyword tags defined in `tags.txt` from the description text (case insenstitive, no punctuation)
3. Exact pattern match for substrings defined in `tags.txt` with `*YOUR_TAG`

You can also exlcude tags from step one using `-YOUR_TAG`.

## Configuration

```config.json``` contains options to control the start point of mining. If you delete the file it will autogenerate with defaults. On completion, it will automatically update with last run data.

|option|description|
|-|-|
|start_date| How far back to mine, if there exists no `last_run` data. Accepts an ISO format string, `null`, or `"default"`. If the value is null, it will mine until the beginning of an account. By default, the start point will be set to one month prior to the first run. |
| last_run | Stores the last run. You can overwrite this or set to null.

The API mines backwards from the most recent post, so setting an earlier start date while maintaining the last run does nothing.

## Website settings

### Author Pages

You can add author pages to the site by adding an author collection in `_config.yml`. Use `author_maker.py` to generate author pages from Instagram data in `users.csv`.

```yml
collections:
  authors:
    output: true
    permalink: /a/:title
```

You can include (or remove) the `authors.md` file in the root directory to provide a list of authors stylized as `places`.

### Language toggle
Some basic client side translation is available. Define strings in `assets/js/strings_<lang>.json`. You can also define patterns. The general idea is to provide localisation of UI elements (where bilingual content is not really feasible) without generating two versions of the website.

#### Translating author names
If you have author pages enabled, you can add a localized `name_<lang>` to the author page. Otherwise, you can define translations manually in the strings file, using the Instagram Username/author field for posts as the key.

## GitHub Action Automation

Go to Settings > Actions > General, scroll to Workflow permissions and set to "Read and write permissions" and "Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests"

Go to Settings > Environments > "github-pages", then change the allowed branch.
